Lesson2/2.1.2/2.1.2.md, before:

# Intermediate Coding - 2.1.2 - How to use Variables - Using Position Variables

### @explicitHints true

## Step 1 @unplugged
In this activity we will use variables to add some
modifications to our Minecraft game.

We will use Coordinates variable to allow our character to jump higher by jumping 10 blocks vertically.

## Step 2
From the ``||PLAYER:PLAYER||`` drawer drag out an ``||PLAYER:on chat command||`` event block.
#### ~ tutorialhint
Open the PLAYER drawer and place a on chat command "jump" anywhere on the blue area.
```blocks
player.onChat("jump",function () {
 
})
)
```
## Step 3
Change it to respond to the chat command jump10Blocks
#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks",function () {
 
})
)
```
## Step 4
Create a new Variable by opening the
``||VARIABLES:VARIABLES||`` drawer and clicking on the ``||VARIABLES:Make a Variable...||`` button.

Enter the variable name **newPosition** when prompted and click OK

## Step 5
Place a ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to 0||`` block from the ``||VARIABLES||`` 
drawer inside the ``||PLAYER:on chat command "jump10Blocks"||`` block

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = 0
})
```

## Step 6
From the ``||POSITIONS:POSITIONS||``  drawer drag a ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` (empty relative coordinate) block
and drop it on the 0 in the set ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to 0||`` block

**Remember relative positions use the ~ symbol and relate to where the player is standing and not the middle of the world like a world position**

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 0, 0)
})
```

## Step 7
Click on the Y position variable in the ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` block and change its value to 10

This will set our position to be 10 blocks up in the y axis.

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
})
```

## Step 8
Place a ``||PLAYER:teleport to ~0 ~0 ~0||`` From the ``||PLAYER:PLAYER||`` drawer after the ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to ||`` block

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
    player.teleport(pos(0,0,0))
})
```

## Step 9
From the ``||VARIABLES:VARIABLES||`` drawer place a  ``||VARIABLES:newPosition||`` 
block on top the ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` block in the ``||PLAYER:teleport to ||`` block

**Be careful to drop it on the ~0 ~0 ~0 block and not one of the 0 blocks within it!**

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
    player.teleport(newPosition)
})
```

## Step 10
Next lets test the code.

Click Next for instructions on how to test your code.

## Step 11 @unplugged
To test your code:

Once you have fully read this step click the Green Ok button below to close this window to return to the tutorial to perform the below steps to test your code.

1. Click on the **Green Start button** below to return to the game.
![alt text](https://intermediatev3.codingcredentials.com/Lesson2/2.1.1/images/2.jpg?raw=true "Start")


2. When back in the game open the **chat window** by pressing the t key on the keyboard or tapping the chat icon.
3. Enter the text **jump10Blocks** and press **Enter**.
4. Press the **Escape** key on the keyboard to close the chat window and notice you should have moved up 10 blocks in the air!


![alt text](https://intermediatev3.codingcredentials.com/Lesson2/2.1.2/images/1-Jump10Blocks.jpg?raw=true "Jump10Blocks")

## Step 12
Follow the instructions in the previous step to test your code.

When your code works as expected click next to continue.

If it does not work as expected try to fix and test again.

## Step 13 @tutorialCompleted
Return to the game and move onto the next non player character.

Commit message:

Update pxt.json, Lesson2/2.1.1/2.1.1.md, Lesson2/2.1.2/2.1.2.md, Lesson2/2.1/2.1.md, Lesson2/2.2.1/2.2.1.md, Lesson2/2.2.2/2.2.2.md, Lesson2/2.2/2.2.md, Lesson2/2/2.md

Lesson2/2.1.2/2.1.2.md, after:

# Intermediate Coding - Lesson 2 - Activity 2 

### @explicitHints true

## Step 1 @unplugged
In this activity we will use variables to add some
modifications to our Minecraft game.

We will use Coordinates variable to allow our character to jump higher by jumping 10 blocks vertically.

## Step 2

If you do not already have an on chat command on your workspace, open the PLAYER drawer and drag out an ``||PLAYER:on chat command||`` event block.

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks
player.onChat("jump",function () {
 
})
)
```

## Step 3
Change the chat command to respond to the chat command jump10Blocks.

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks",function () {
 
})
)
```

## Step 4
Create a new Variable by opening the
``||VARIABLES:VARIABLES||`` drawer and clicking on the ``||VARIABLES:Make a Variable...||`` button.

Enter the variable name **newPosition** when prompted and click OK

## Step 5
Place a ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to 0||`` block from the ``||VARIABLES||`` 
drawer inside the ``||PLAYER:on chat command "jump10Blocks"||`` block

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = 0
})
```

## Step 6
From the ``||POSITIONS:POSITIONS||``  drawer drag a ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` (empty relative coordinate) block
and drop it on the 0 in the set ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to 0||`` block

**Remember relative positions use the ~ symbol and relate to where the player is standing and not the middle of the world like a world position**

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 0, 0)
})
```

## Step 7
Click on the Y position variable in the ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` block and change its value to 10

This will set our position to be 10 blocks up in the y axis.

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
})
```

## Step 8
Place a ``||PLAYER:teleport to ~0 ~0 ~0||`` From the ``||PLAYER:PLAYER||`` drawer after the ``||VARIABLES:set newPosition to ||`` block

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
    player.teleport(pos(0,0,0))
})
```

## Step 9
From the ``||VARIABLES:VARIABLES||`` drawer place a  ``||VARIABLES:newPosition||`` 
block on top the ``||POSITIONS: ~0 ~0 ~0||`` block in the ``||PLAYER:teleport to ||`` block

**Be careful to drop it on the ~0 ~0 ~0 block and not one of the 0 blocks within it!**

#### ~ tutorialhint
```blocks 
player.onChat("jump10Blocks", function () {
    newPosition = pos(0, 10, 0)
    player.teleport(newPosition)
})
```

## Step 10
Next, let's test the code.

Click Next for instructions on how to test your code.

## Step 11 @unplugged
To test your code:

Once you have fully read this step click the Green Ok button below to close this window to return to the tutorial to perform the below steps to test your code.

1. Click on the **Green Start button** below to return to the game.
![alt text](https://intermediatev3.codingcredentials.com/Lesson2/2.1.1/images/2.jpg?raw=true "Start")


2. When back in the game open the **chat window** by pressing the t key on the keyboard or tapping the chat icon.
3. Enter the text **jump10Blocks** and press **Enter**.
4. Press the **Escape** key on the keyboard to close the chat window and notice you should have moved up 10 blocks in the air!


![alt text](https://intermediatev3.codingcredentials.com/Lesson2/2.1.2/images/1-Jump10Blocks.jpg?raw=true "Jump10Blocks")

## Step 12
Follow the instructions in the previous step to test your code.

When your code works as expected click next to continue.

If it does not work as expected try to fix and test again.

## Step 13 @tutorialCompleted
Return to the game and move onto the next non player character.
